An underwater forest.

Colors glow in the dark blue depths.  Purple, bright green, translucent blue skins.

The water breaths, gently pulsing.  A soft breeze, and underwater current, rolls through — swaying the neon plants and corals, gently pulling clear squids and color-changing octopi and magical green creatures into the current.

Clear.  Quiet.  Wild.  Alive.

A glimpse of the planet we belong to, how things may have once been … or how they are yet to be.

As a sea vent releases gases, we feel and hear a muted vibration.  Breathing?  Pulsing?  Or …?

The vibration loudens.  Our underwater kin, the mobile ones at least, slip back in alert — the octopus camoflauges itself.

And the sound gets LOUD.  The beings of this place dart away, out of view, abandoning the algael forests and coral reefs — leaving it still, empty, part, as the sound almost gets too loud.

A MACHINE, yellow and boxlike with a wide plow up front, motors into view — plowing up rocks from the ocean floor, kicking up clouds of dirt, and in the process, scraping or trampling all of the plants that couldn’t flee fast enough, who made their last stand, of a place lost forever.  (A place, being a space with beings and culture embedded in it — more than a space alone.  If you want an example of space without place, look at mowed grass lawn at every yard in the “developed” world.)

CUT TO:

An animated rendering of a yellow excaver on empty ocean space, silently and harmlessly rolling on its treads and collecting rocks, and pleasantly feeding those rocks up to the surface.  It’s playing on a screen — a video conference call.  A product presentation.  To a dozen small faces and camera-off squares in the window.

“With this technology, we can harvest enough resources for one hundred thousand new electric vehicles — ethically sourced, without any violence, land violations, mines, or expensive negotiations.  All we need, is for the UN and the authoring body, to agree — and we can begin harvesting within the month.”

— “I don’t understand.”

In the middle of a HIGHWAY, a driver leans out of their window, and speaks with a teenager standing on the highway — in between lanes of a traffic jam.

“To produce electric cars, it requires metal.  Companies get the metal from rainforests, from mountains, from underwater forests — places that have more magic, that we know less about, than other planets in our solar system.  So, do you want electric cars and mines all over the planet?  Or do you want ways to get around without a car, without —“ the teenager gestures to the traffic jam — “*this*, and to keep our home too?”

“Get around how?”

“Bikes, feet, buses, metro,” the teenager laughs with the simplicity of it, looking at the driver’s luxury sedan.

“You probably don’t even need to drive to work anyway — just work at home.  The stress, the back problems from this stuff — my mom was a driver, I know.”

The driver sits up and contorts their hand between their seat, rubbing their lower back.

“So, would you mind sharing your choice?”

The teenager extends a paper on a clipboard — the driver’s name is scribbled in the first row of a fresh page, with two checkboxes next to it.

EVs + Mines        Car-Free + World
[ ]                      [ ]


The driver feels on their chest, their pocket, and the teenager hands in a pen.  The driver examines the sheet — and the same choice appears on the SCREEN.  A choice for you.

EVs + Mines        Car-Free + World
[ ]                      [ ]
